all righty then so I was I was actually
about to go to bed the other night and I
got a notification of my phone from
Amazon saying that they had a desktop
buying guide that I should check out so
I checked it out and I was mortified
at the results like the concept of the
guide is good you know it asks you what
are you using the desktop for so it can
tailor the results to your needs but the
results it spits out are pretty garbage
so we're gonna take a closer look at it
today see what Amazon is suggesting
their users buy if they're looking for a
desktop PC and not willing to build
their own which you totally should be
and I may perhaps take one or two of the
pre-built we'll be looking at and
revising their parts lists to make a
better system for the amount of money
they're asking and maybe if you guys are
interested in building a PC of that
budget and for those needs you might
find this video a little helpful the
Corsair won I won 40 and I won 60 are
the best portable power houses on the
market featuring up to an Intel Core i
$9.99 hundred K and NVIDIA GeForce r-tx
20 atti Corsairs liquid cooling system
for the CPU and GPU delivers
uncompromised performance low temps and
minimal noise for an experienced few
systems its size can achieve for those
who want everything this is the one
click on the link below to learn more
let's just go ahead and rip Amazon a new
one starting at third whether their
desktop buying guide home page here oh
by the way I am very aware that I
haven't activated windows on the system
yet but thank you in advance anyway for
the million plus comments that are
rolling in probably at this very moment
notifying me of that fact taking a look
here we've got a couple Apple IMAX those
like really these are the first things
you show on the desktop buying guy that
landing page okay you've also got a
couple pre-built here Acer Dell
CyberPower
but at the top of the page you can
narrow the results down further as I
mentioned by picking which of these
tasks you'll be using your desktop for
and I'm gonna choose gaming because I
feel like a lot of us are gamers and we
like gaming PCs so wait hold on hold on
okay I click gaming and still the Apple
I Macs are the first two results what
you know what I'm not gonna hate I'm
gonna give them the benefit of the doubt
both Apple and Amazon I'm gonna click on
the first one here and just we'll take a
look at the price and specs and see
see how it goes so fifteen hundred and
forty-nine dollars now bear in mind the
Apple IMAX are a little bit different
because they come included with a 5k
display which is a pretty nice bonus act
the one problem I have with that though
is that if you're gonna buy an iMac
primarily for gaming most likely the
specs inside are not gonna be able to
drive that 5k display anyway so let's
just take a look at the who knows let's
take a look at the specs let's see
what's what's possible here we've got a
seventh gen dual core Core i5 CPU $1500
and 2019 should get you at least a core
i7 with six or eight cores or definitely
a rise in seven CPU with eight cores and
sixteen threads if you're going AMD we
only have eight gigs of RAM - I mean
I've been able to fit 16 gigs in $500
budget pcs no problem so that's that's
not great for GPU we've got a couple
options depending on the kit that you
want to be outfitted with Radeon Pro 575
75 or 580 with up to eight gigs of VRAM
okay so the Radeon Pro Series from what
I understand are not quite as fast as
their rx 500 series counterparts when it
comes to gaming but they're not far
behind that being said this system isn't
chalking up to be a solid option if
gaming is your primary focus especially
for the price one terabyte let me guess
it's a hard drive this guy is saying
that it's advertised as having a one
terabyte hard look excuse me I've got
the hiccups now this always happens when
I see a bad pre-built oh there it is
again
so I searched for the word SSD and the
reviews and on the product page with all
the marketing text nothing we're talking
about spinning rust here which is as
most of us know much slower than an SSD
it's really not a fun experience if it's
the only drive in your system ok I'm
done looking at this alright Amazon I
gave you the benefit of the doubt bro
and you let me down and you gave me the
hiccups
that's not cool man what's up with that
oh yeah so just so we're crystal if you
happen to be in the gaming section of
Amazon's desktop buying guide don't buy
this don't buy this and this is scary
because not everyone knows what all
these specs are and someone should be
like well it's the first one it's got 92
reviews and four and a half stars it's
the first one that Amazon told me to buy
so I'm gonna buy it and they're gonna be
disappointed
all right this is a much different price
point here sick
hundred and thirty dollars from HP this
is a pavilion desktop and it's got a
rise in seven 1700 not bad for the price
but let's keep going
twelve gigs of ram is a little weird you
usually see eight or sixteen this might
indicate a proprietary motherboard which
isn't the best especially if you plan to
upgrade ddr4 2666 that is some slo-mo
memory module rising feeds off of fast
memory you want to give it some high
frequency RAM I usually suggest 3200 if
you can squeeze it 3,000 is not bad
either especially if you can overclock
it to 3200 but 2666 come on kemon one
terabyte hard drive you know I wasn't
really expecting an SSD in here although
although you could squeeze one in for
this price point and I'll show you how
in just a moment and Windows 10 and
that's something worth noting is that
pre belts to their credit usually come
included with the software the operating
system is included with the price so you
have to worry about that what's the
graphics give me the graphics rx 550 get
out come on you can easily cram an RX
580 in there no problemo especially with
all the price drops we've been saying
you can get an 8 gig model for 179 bucks
it's not too hard to find so rx 550 is
weak sauce I wonder what cooler they
have in here - they probably don't have
a decent enough cooler for you to
overclock that 1700 I would be very
surprised if there's anything comparable
to like a hyper 212 in there I have seen
enough alright Amazon you fed us a bad
apple recommendation and a bad PC
recommendation but those are both from
really big name brands what if we go to
someone let what if we check out a build
from say a smaller s ah maybe one I've
never heard of like adamant computers
I've never heard of atamans I can
adamantly say that so maybe they'll give
you more bang for your buck let's check
it out
no all right there we go
Verizon 720 700 X all right now we're
talking eight core 16 threads second gen
Rison I'm feeling it I'm feeling a 16 16
gigs of ram do we know the speed it does
not say it does not say anything alright
not sure about that 3 terabyte hard
drive 250 gig SSD thank you
650 watt power supply and a geforce r-tx
that's a little a little weak 1616 with
a $1600 budget I'm pretty sure you could
squeeze a lot more performance out of a
gaming rig let's see if we can do okay
so after like 10 minutes on PC part
picker I parted out a rig that comes out
to sixteen hundred and one dollars it's
about the same price they've got a 2700
X we've got a 2700 we could just
overclock this especially with our nice
nut knock to a cooler we can overclock
all the cores probably to four gigahertz
thereabouts maybe even 4.1 and it's
gonna perform exactly the same as say an
overclock to 2,700 X running at the same
same frequency however if you aren't
overclocking that's not your thing
you're just you're scared for some
stupid reason then yeah okay it's your
27700 X is gonna run a little faster out
of the box but just overclock it just
overclock and you'll be fine alright so
you got that knocked to a cooler in
there it's a nice little air cooler 120
mm I don't went eemiller in your fan I
hate these freaking hiccups I'm so over
it FS I'd be 450 tomahawk motherboard I
definitely vouch for that board I've
used it a ton and it's you know it's
it's probably better than the board
that's in here I mean I don't to make
any assumptions but it probably is I
match they're 16 gigs of ram but we've
got 3200 speed again can't verify what
the speeds running they're Intel 5 4 5 s
256 gig SSD more or less the same as
what they have although I'm not exactly
sure what model they're using this is
the one area they have a speed they've
got a 3 terabyte hard drive we have a 2
terabyte hard drive but when you see the
rest of the specs I don't think that's
gonna matter too much to the average
user we have an MSI r-tx 2088 gig ventas
video card this isn't like a blower
style card either it's it's got dual
fans it's a pretty decent cool cooler
open-air shroud this is gonna beat the
crap out of an RT X 2060 you know here's
my rule of thumb is if you're building a
gaming PC take your budget whatever your
max budget is so you want to spend a
thousand thousand dollars on a rig
allocate half of that budget around more
or less half to your GP now this isn't
gonna work for everyone
some people have complex needs but if
you're just gaming allocate around half
of your budget to the GPU because that's
what's gonna affect your gaming
performance the most so you can see I
spent about 700 bucks on the 2080 it's
definitely less than half but you know
if we went the next rung up RTX 2080 ti
that would go way over half of our
budget
we're talking you know 1,100 1,200 plus
for for a GPU and just to put things in
perspective the r-tx 2060 is a great
card for 1080p and even 1440p gaming but
you get you really get your foot in the
door to 4k gaming with an RT x 2080
should you be interested in that and
even if you're not I mean let's say
you're just gaming at 1440p you can be
gaming at that resolution with an RT x
2080 for a three four maybe even five
years before you even think about
upgrading your GPU whereas you're gonna
feel that slow down a lot sooner with
the 2060 for the case I went with an
Eclipse 400 from fantex this is a I use
this case very recently and I'm using
using it again here because I follow my
own advice
damn it $70 case alright tempered glass
no those acrylics nonsense not throwing
shade on the focus gee this is a great
great case I actually really like this
case a lot refractive but if you have
the money to spare and you like the way
tempered glass looks and you don't want
your side panel window being scratched
up like a [__] then this is a
great it's a great options it's got a
power supply shroud this case doesn't
and just great cable management all
around so solid option there and we have
a see sonic focus gold 650 watt semi
modular unit oh yeah and and look at
this I included Windows 10 home whoo
hundred bucks this is just a bonus you
know if you go to like a Windows key
reseller you can find them for much
cheaper than than retail I usually get
mine from a reseller for like 30 to 35
bucks and it definitely keeps you from
eating into your budget for the rest of
the PC
alright adamant you did much better than
Apple and HP but still not quite the
build we're looking for here so let's
let's take a games list it'll give you
guys one more chance Amazon Amazon
alright show me something good
alright let's go with cyber power
alright so first I went with an aside a
really no cyber power is practically a
household name for PC builders so let's
see what they have to offer here for
seven hundred and ten dollars rather
than five fourteen hundred Oh
okay so first gen rise and this might be
an older pre-built model I would go with
the second generation if you're building
a system now just get it Rison five
twenty six hundred perhaps you would
even get two more cores and four more
threads as compared to this quad core
here in AMD r7 250 two gigabyte card no
no no what is that even capable of I
think I own in our seven two fifty but
I've never been smart it it's just been
held captive
garage all these years it's probably
tried to run away at some point but you
know it's too slow this isn't even good
for 1080p anymore ah someone's gonna buy
this 16 people already bought this I
hope they got it on sale eight gigs of
RAM should be 16 1 terabyte hard drive
no SSD you get Windows 10 but that
doesn't make up for that ah all right
I'll be right back again so here's my
alternate parts list like I said a rise
in five twenty six hundred I think is a
great choice for this price point 6
cores 12 threads you get all the
benefits and features of second gen
Rison plus it comes included with the
wraith stealth cooler that's pretty cool
literally and when I can spend any
additional money on a cooler that way so
so that's fun you get by be 450 MDS 3h
this is micro ATX board so we have to be
comfortable with that form factor this
board admitting Lee does not have a
bunch of bells and whistles it's very
basic although one thing that I made
sure look out for was four dimm slots
there are a lot of be 450 boards in this
price range that only have two DIMM
slots I want to get four that way we can
upgrade expand down the line we also
have a 16 gig kit of guile Evo Spears so
this is also some budget ram ddr4 at 13
oh it's 3,000 ideally I like to have
3200 in a perfect world but considering
the price of just $80.00 I I think this
is a pretty good deal we have a much
better storage solution here I've
actually managed to cram in an SSD 240
gig it's a pn y CS 900 we can boot off
of this we can install frequently used
applications and this even more so than
the CPU upgrade is gonna make the system
feel perceptibly so much snappier and
responsive still pairing that with a one
terabyte hard drive and I can't wait to
hear all your jokes about how unreliable
so you get barracudas are the GPU is
really the biggest upgrade here we're
going from an r7 250 with two gigs of
memory to an Rx 588 gig card this is the
red dragon from power color it's got
it's got a cool little dragon on the box
so you know it's fast but it is it's
gonna be so much faster than than that
r7 250 it's it's not even funny now I
did get a little inspired from the last
pre-built we looked at with the the
Focus G from from fractal that case so
I'm using that case again but this is
the focus G mini yeah I know it's an
acrylic side panel window but it's $50
come on you know it's got a really smart
cable management layout you know all the
cutouts are where they should should be
their ample size there's plenty of space
behind the motherboard
tray if you know what you're doing and
it's very well built for the price steel
material and all that jazz our power
supplies a 500 watt 80 plus bronze
certified semi modular Rose will glacier
Galatians this unit before it does have
nasty ketchup and mustard cables which
which I don't like but it is something
modular it's 80 plus rated has very good
review surprisingly and it's within our
budget now that's all the hardware for
the system and if that's all you're
looking for you don't need an OS we're
actually under that 710 dollar price
point but if you do need an operating
system like Windows 10 and you're paying
full retail price you are gonna go over
seven hundred and ten bucks so I'm
playing my Windows key reseller card
right now I went on kinguin net which is
a key reseller that I use all the time
and I found a Windows 10 home key for 29
bucks and 37 cents so I'm adding that to
the list because if this is my personal
build that's the price I would pay for
that key I would I would go to kinguin I
would not spend $100 on a freaking
Windows 10 key is just ridiculous the
total costs including the operating
system comes out to seven hundred and
eight dollars and 87 cents that's
cheaper like a whole dollar cheaper than
this oh and I missed this before they
have ketchup and mustard cables too oh
look at that stock fan
oh that's stock AMD heatsink oh I'm
gonna have nightmares so I guess the
moral the story here is if you're gonna
go to the Amazon desktop buying guide to
buy a gaming PC don't and that probably
goes for all the other categories that
they have here too like if you needed a
system for multimedia and creative the
first thing that pops up is a $1000
CyberPower PC that I can already see
right here is is just you can you can
build can build a better system for this
price it's just the same pattern and
trend that we're seeing with with
pre-built systems and there are people
out there who for whatever reason cannot
or do not want to build their own but if
you can help it if you could just just
manage to do it it's so much better if
you build it yourself as hopefully I've
demonstrated today and for the record
I'm not knocking all pre builds there
are companies out there who do pre-built
s'right if you know where to look
and sure in some way this video is a bit
of a critique towards those s eyes and
pre build manufacturers but it's also
sort of a critique on Amazon more so
because they're the ones who are
curating this list these lists for
people who might not know what they're
doing in fact if there
looking at a desktop buying guide then
they probably don't know what they're
doing and so I just feel like it might
be a little bit risky or maybe even
irresponsible for Amazon to just sort of
loosey-goosey Liston iMac here so I
don't really Amazon yeah you're smarter
than me you're the big company maybe
hire someone who knows computers to do
this and hopefully everyone will benefit
from it but that's just my input what do
I know but thank you for watching this
video if you enjoyed it toss a like on
it before you go and get subscribed for
more tech stuff coming at you really
soon did you guys notice that I put the
acoustic foam panels down here it's all
kind of coming together still echo in
here but I'm working on it I have more
stuff in the works for echo reduction so
that's coming soon too
did I already say subscribe yeah you
guys know the drill alright that's all
for now guys thank you for watching have
a good one and I will see you in the
next